And a lot of the people who I write for have probably never seen that.
I mean, I know you've been asked a dozen times, maybe a hundred times, about the circumstances.
You're contriving a plot to murder the ex-husband.
In fact, he still lives in Santa Barbara.
I always thought he would sue me for saying that, but so far he hasn't.
But generally, if I speak to large groups of people, I check to see if his attorney is sitting in the audience.
I thought about that, actually.
At least he could probably claim some royalties.
Right, right.
I've been dining out on this story for years.
But we went through a very bitter divorce.
This was many years ago.
It was in the early 70s.
And he put me through three custody battles.
And I was... I know I do that when I'm doing research.
You always have to make sure the wheels are turning.
Yes, I'll watch the red light.
I didn't know how to fight.
I thought you could get through life being a nice girl.
So I thought it just will suffice that I'm a good girl.
And apparently that's not the way it works when you're in the middle of a bitter divorce.
So I used to lie awake thinking of ways to do this man in.
And I just thought, I'm sure serious.
I told my wife, Mr. Hewlett.
Oh, absolutely.
And she said, that's wonderful.
I mean, the trick is I've been a law-abiding citizen all my life.
So...
I knew myself well enough to know that if I really tried to act it out, I'd fluff it, you know, because the minute the cops knocked on the door, I'd babble out a confession, and then I'd end up in prison, wearing those terrible prison clothes, eating starched food.
So I thought, well, wouldn't it be wonderful to put this in a book and...
get paid for it.
See, then you have the pleasure of doing somebody in without having to pay the price.
And if you can pick up a couple of bucks in the process, we're way ahead of the game.
And every time you tell this story, you're kind of getting... I know, I know.
I mean, that's the truth.
And Nancy, I was smart enough, though, to realize that I couldn't tell this story from the killer's point of view.
because it'd be a real short series, right?
I don't think you can do 26 books from various pathological points of view.
Well, we'll get to that in a second, but I'm curious about the A, this alphabet device.
Well, yeah, so a lot of things were happening simultaneously that fulminate in this decision to do the alphabet.
I was working in Hollywood at the time, and I'd been there probably eight years, six or eight.
and it was driving me crazy.
I was making good money or what seemed like good money then and I got sick of sitting in meetings at the network with people who were 26 years old telling me how to do my business.
I've been at it too long and most of them had never actually written a word.
They'd all gone to film school so that made them experts on how to write things and I got crankier and crankier and I
They've reached a point where I thought, this isn't right.
If something's making you that angry that often, it's a clue.
She felt like I'm smart enough to figure that out.
So I said, you know, if you don't like the game, don't take the money.
Pardon me, but are they really 26 years old?
Oh, hey, I'm exaggerating.
Some are younger than that.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, sometimes they'll bring in an intern who's a college student,
And you're sitting in this meeting, there's always a guy named Steve with a mustache.
You don't know who he is, but you've got to be polite, because he's going to be the head of the network year after next.
And you're sitting there, and they'll say, well, Steve had a good idea for your script, so you're sitting there, you know, you're taking notes, and Steve gives you the worst idea you ever heard.
Then you find out he's a goddamn intern.
And you have to be polite.
But so I thought to myself, it is time to get back to solo writing, because I started out doing...
mainstream fiction.
I had a couple.
You had a couple.
Yeah.
Who were they with, by the way?
Which host?
One was Macmillan in 1967.
That was Poseidon Day.
And then I had a book published just in England by Peter Owen Limited.
That was called The Wally Madonna War.
These must be very collectible books.
They are.
The Brits discovered that their rights had never reverted, and they were going to do me the incredible favor of reprinting them.
They all kind of fit.
But the Brits are so terrific, because when my agent told the head of Macmillan that I was horrified of the idea, he said, I'm wrong.
Isn't that interesting?
I was fabulous, fabulous.
Surprisingly decent.
Completely decent.
I'm not sure what an American publisher would have done that.
Anyway, I had had my bitter divorce, so I had schemes for doing the man in.
I was about sick of Hollywood, and I knew it was time to salvage whatever talent I had left.
And Hollywood was saying to me, they would say to me in these meetings, well, you know how to do character, but you cannot do plot.
So that pissed me off.
I thought, well, I'm going to teach myself how to do plot, and I'll stick it to you where the sun never shines.
Then I was reading.
My father, you know, had done mystery fiction.
So I had always thought I would try one.
One of my questions for later on, before I forget, is did you learn anything from C.W.?
I'll tell you what I learned from that guy.
So I was reading these Edward Gorey cartoons.
Which are wonderful.
Oh, at the Gashley Crumb Tynies.
I swear one day I'm going to learn that whole set of rhymes.
But it did occur to me that you could do a series of books based
on crime words that pertain to the alphabet.
That's a great, great.
I know librarians love me, booksellers love me.
Yeah, but so Gloria was the... Oh yeah.
I haven't seen that anywhere.
Oh, that was... What was the book once again?
The book is called The Gashley Crumb Tiny, G-A-S-H-L-Y-C-R-U.
I'll find it, I'll find it.
And it goes, A is for Amy who fell down the stairs, B is for
Basil, assaulted by bears.
Excuse for Clara, who died of the plague.
I mean, you know, all these little Victorian children stabbed and burned and falling off bridges.
It was very droll.
So I sat down and sketched out as many words as I could think of in alphabetical order to see if, in fact, there were enough to go around.
And some of those titles were, I have always, you know, it was always A is for alibi, B is for burglary, C is for corpse, D is for dead boot.
A couple of them changed as I actually got to the book.
Did you get 26?
More or less.
There are some letters that are puzzlers, but I don't worry about anything that's not happening right this minute.
Right now we're worried about him.
Right, and it's not going to be for murder, I can promise you that.
I don't know what it'll be for, and I guessed wrong a couple of times, so now I try to be kind of quiet about it, unless I know.
Yeah, if I know what a title is, I'll always tell, but I thought L was for libel, so I spent a long time doing research about product liability and couldn't make the story work.
So you really do get the title, and then the story, and then the... An exception with K. I thought K was for kidnap.
And I worked on a storyline for four months, and I had to finally admit to myself, it's a federal crime.
Kinsey Milhorn would never be called in for any reason whatsoever.
So then I thought, I better call it Chaos for Killer, because that'll cover a multitude of sins.
No matter what I come up with, all I have to have is a murder in that one.
And so that's the one I ended up with.
So you did have the idea when you sold the first book.
This is the first of 26 and possibly... Well, you know how that goes.
You're writing a book, you don't know if you're going to sell it.
You can be full of energy and hope and have great faith in the system, but...
But the concept was there.
Yes, and maybe you sell the first and it never goes anywhere and nobody ever invites you to proceed down the alphabet.
I sold A.S.
for Aladon to Marion Wood on the basis of 65 pages.
There was no, and she didn't do mysteries.
I don't think she knew anything.
I read some quotes from her that she didn't do any of this at all.
But she thought the voice was wonderful.
Well, she thought I knew what I was doing.
Imagine my surprise.
I thought, shit, they're going to pay me money.
Now I've got to finish the book.
But I feel like that to this day.
Every book I do is a surprise to me.
You always feel like you've done it all.
Are you ever anxious going into one?
I mean, there is expectation.
I don't know.
Anxious.
I'm fearful every day.
It can be a form of energy.
It can also really get in your way.
So a lot of my process is just trying to get calmed down to a point where I can do the work.
Sometimes I think my job as a writer is to get out of my own way.
And, you know,
Are you confident that each one is better than the last?
I don't... See, one of the things I've had to learn, and one of the reasons I love what I'm doing is... Okay.
Okay, one of the reasons I love what I'm doing is that I am learning all kinds of things.
One of the things I'm learning is to give up the notion that I can control how other people feel about these books.
other readers will say this is better than the last but that isn't mine to worry about my job is to write each book as well as i can and trust it to do whatever it needs to do so sometimes i get trashed by reviewers i got trashed by the new york times for years for evidence and do you have a thin skin for reviews yeah
I'm beginning to understand that bad reviews are about one person's opinion.
Yeah.
I have to say, this is my first book, and I'm 52, you know.
It's not like I'm a kid.
Yeah, yeah.
But I got one snotty, snotty review, which I mean, I was sore for a week.
I understand that.
Well, I have never forgotten a gal in some part of Texas who said, B is for boring.
To be accused of being boring, would you die?
Well, the guy who published his week, he said, the Bible was big, it's 688 pages, 250,000 words, and the history of it.
And the guy says, he's included everything, including the kitchen sink.
And I feel like saying, well, where is the kitchen sink?
Tell me what page it's on, you know?
Because it's a wise-ass remark.
Everything else has been wonderful.
I have a full page in the Washington Post.
I have a third printing.
I'm only a month old.
You don't have that anyway.
Well, you have to give that up.
I mean, I always react with a wince to that.
It's like being insulted by somebody you never even met.
Like, what did I do to you?
But you must hear wonderful things from your readers.
I do.
And here's the other thing you have to learn.
It's like it's all the same.
The negative and the positive, the good reviews and the bad, none of them help you write the next sentence well.
No, don't.
I am a one-man band.
Forgive me for moving away.
Okay, okay.
Just keep talking.
That's okay.
So I can still talk to you?
Oh, please.
Okay.
That's what's happening right there.
It's just as dangerous in a way to listen to the praise and start thinking of hot shit.
That's worse for you than being a little bit insulted or wounded.
So I try to disregard it all.
And in fact, Marian, I've told her I don't want to read reviews.
You know, it just doesn't help me.
So she doesn't send them to you now?
Nope.
Really?
Yeah.
We talked about the readers.
Do you have a reader and my reader writing these books?
No, I write them until they sound right to me.
So you look basically for yourself?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You do a lot of research for all of your books, too.
Could you tell me a little bit about some of the things you've done for Paris?
Oh, how great.
Happily, I've never been arrested.
So in H's for Homicide, when I knew that Kinsey Milhorn was going to get self-arrested so she could make contact with Viviana Diaz, I went over to the jail.
Unfortunately, I live in a wonderful small town where they will help me.
And they walked me through the booking process.
This is Santa Barbara, which is in my book, by the way.
Do you know a fellow by the name of Dave Karpelis?
Yes, I just, honestly, he looks around the corner for me.
It's in my book.
Oh, really?
I went over to their house doing a piece of research.
Really?
For the next book I'm doing.
Okay.
Because I'm thinking it has, there's some little piece of business, which I will not reveal at this point, but David and Marcia are wonderful people.
You should read my chat, my little section on there.
I will.
I'm very curious about them.
Well, I, and I know a lot more about them.
I bet.
Then you put it down.
That's good.
If you're interested, you can call me and say, I'll give you a lot of time.
Okay, okay.
Um,
That's irrelevant to what we're talking about here.
I'm sorry, the police.
My daughter, my younger daughter, said, make sure you tell Sue Grafton we live in Grafton.
Yes, my town.
I give you permission.
Yeah, what else have I done?
I've been through... You went through an autopsy once?
I've never been to an autopsy.
I've been in many morgues.
but I hear autopsy or nasty things, and I understand you can get them on tape now, and I think that might feel, because it's the smell and the sound that I hear is so appalling, and I'm fairly squeamish.
I don't mind dead bodies at all, it doesn't bother me a bit, but hacking and sawing on human flesh.
As a cub reporter, I walked into one by the swamp.
I swear to God, you don't even know the story, but I was drowning, and I was out,
I was looking around, and I walked into this room, and there was a pathologist with this present.
You backed out of that one pretty quick.
I'm pretty tough, but that's what I'm doing.
How about before we forget the influence of your father and mine?
My father died four months before A is for Alibi was published, and he had not read the book because I wanted to present him with the real thing.
But because he wrote himself, he often talked about writing, and I think maybe consciously or unconsciously he was grooming me to do this.
Well, he was doing this.
This was decidedly a male province, though.
Yeah.
But see, the thing about my parents, it never occurred to them to tell me you couldn't do something because you were female.
So that message was never given to me one way or the other.
What my father taught me was to work hard.
They taught me about meritocracy.
And with meritocracy, it doesn't matter if you're male or female, black, white, it just doesn't pertain.
What matters is do you have the ability?
And are you patient?
And are you tough enough to take it?
So he taught me, he used to say, keep it simple.
He would say, it is miracle enough that I can have a thought in my head converted into a
marks on a page that you look at so that the same thought forms in your head so he would always say the writer must never do anything to interfere with that communication so he said spell correctly use proper punctuation yeah and he would teach me for instance he said transitions are important
This is why you were working on A is for Alibi, or even when you were younger?
No, this was just when I started writing when I was 18.
I had nothing to say, but I did it very earnestly.
And the thought was fiction, of course.
Yes.
So he would say to me, every writer has the big scenes.
If you're thinking of a novel, you always imagine the big
confrontations, but he said, if you don't take care of the transitional scenes, you won't have a reader when you get to the vision.
My sense is that you do write very visually, though.
That's what I learned in Hollywood.
But it is kind of paradoxical.
I've read also that no way would you ever sell this character to these people.
That's right.
I mean, she must be a rather sacred... They would wreck my work.
You know, I've had too many years
people telling me how to do my work.
I don't tolerate that anymore.
I need, certainly with Marian Wood, I need feedback and I need another untutored eye.
Somebody saying this is confusing, this needs to be expanded on or cut.
You need somebody to give you honest feedback.
I've talked to a number of writers who feel that the space that we do this
perhaps because we love it, but we also do it because we have to live, and that's how we make our living.
And if it became a viable source of income for you, the books are yours.
I mean, don't you accept that they could do something with the character?
I don't.
I don't want to ever give them permission to tamper with my work.
There was an arrogance.
You must have had a tough time.
Oh, I did.
Yeah, and it was a good lesson.
I'll tell you what I learned in Hollywood.
The other thing my father taught me was to pay attention to minor characters.
What I learned in Hollywood, see, I'm a smart girl.
I learn a lot of things from a lot of people.
I learned how to structure a story, and the mystery structure is terribly important, and it's also important in screenplay for one.
I learned how to write dialogue.
I learned how to be economical, how to get into a scene and get out of it.
I learned how to write action sequences.
And all of those are very important to the mystery plot.
When you talk about paying attention to minor characters, that's also the story.
Is this kind of a tip to the reader to be alert?
I think it is a way, it's really about not being a lazy writer.
Not dropping into stereotyping and cartooning the people who pass through your books.
I think John D. MacDonald does a wonderful job of handling minor characters.
So I watch how other writers do things and I learn how I can.
Now, Kinsey is about 33, I guess.
She's 35.
She's 35?
Yeah, she started out 32 when the books first came out in 1982.
Books are sequential, so in her life, three years have passed.
In our lives, 13 have gone by.
When I get to the end of the alphabet, she will turn 40, because she's going to age one year for every two and a half books.
But life begins at 40 for a lot of people.
I know, but she gets to do that in privacy.
Thank you.
Do you suspect that you'll retire her at the age of 40?
I don't know.
She had 14 books.
I'm going to give her the last book.
She gets to do it anything she wants.
It may not even be a mystery.
I don't know what she'll do.
It's a gift.
Yeah, it is.
And it's not mine to determine.
It's a gift from you to kids.
One of the things I've been saying, you know, the woman has taken over my life, and so maybe by the end there will be no Sue Grafton, there will only be Kenzie Milhom.
Because everything I do pertains to her practically.
Is she somebody you'd like to be?
She is a lot of who I am.
The difference is her life is full of genuine adventure.
Mine is full of hard work.
And so the parallels between us are very peculiar because she lives in a very spartan style, a nearly monastic life.
I live very lavishly, thank you, because of her.
So I can say sometimes the smartest thing I ever did was to invent somebody who now supports me.
You know, imagine an imaginary friend who turns out to be your benefactor.
That's it.
I mean, how you can see close and tight.
Yes.
She's an evolving character.
But slowly, I think, as we own.
Which is wonderful because you learn new things about her.
There are textures to her.
She's not pure and perfect in every way.
Oh, God forbid.
I really work to keep her human size.
I don't want her to be larger than life.
I don't want her to be idealized.
And so I like her to be cranky and inconsistent.
And sometimes she has miserable little thoughts, you know.
She can be like we all do.
little petty hatefulness.
I do admire her lying ability, and I do feel I am a quite accomplished liar myself.
Now, this raises something, and whether or not you want to get into it or not, but how do you see this O.J.
Simpson thing affecting your profession?
Because it seems to me that if this guy beats it,
Oh, he will.
And he will.
I'm not asking you for your opinion on it, but anybody did it, obviously.
And if you watch from it, and we've seen it, what does this say?
Oh, here's what's always been true.
There is a huge difference between real homicide and fictional homicide, and this is why people read mystery novels.
In the real world, homicide is, I think the percentage is 65% of all homicides are alcohol-related.
They're generally poorly planned.
They're hasty.
They're impulsive.
And they're pointless.
People kill each other for a pair of tennis shoes.
In fiction, the conceit is that if you are murdered, it is the result of somebody's solid motivation and quite cluttered planning.
If you're murdered in a piece of fiction, somebody's worked at it and has tried to be intelligent and clever about it.
And the other conceit is that if you are murdered in a work of fiction, there is a representative of the law, a detective or a cop who will move heaven and earth to see the justice and stuff.
Pick up the paper and there's no sign of any of that.
In the real world, homicide is pointless, life has little value, and the legal system is pottering and foundering
And we can't look anymore to the courts for a sense of justice and mercy because what we see is killers who are set free six months later.
Have you watched any of this?
Some of it.
I'm really worried I'll get hopelessly addicted.
It's gotten so boring.
Yeah, true.
And the fact that they've allowed this fight.
I've covered a lot of trials as a reporter before I was in.
Yeah.
And I've always said that I would never second this jury because they've seen all the evidence.
That's not the case here.
The whole world has seen more evidence than the children.
Well, they know about it.
Well, that's often true.
There are many things that are not admissible.
Yeah, but it's never on television.
I know.
Gavel-to-gavel coverage.
It is.
And we've seen the graphic stuff.
Yeah.
But I used to think it would be a hung jury.
Now I think he'll be a critic.
Yeah.
Like it or not, Johnny Cochran has done a fine job of muddying the waters.
Absolutely, histrionics, hysteria, finger-pointing, and all he has to do is create these.
He's done it six different ways, and it's bullshit, but every time you hear about them taking notes, whatever's going down, and it's always about something that would appear to exonerate O.J.
Simpson.
I did an interview with Donald Westlake a couple months back.
Ah, he's a doll.
He's a doll.
And this was, he was so funny, and this was, you know, a lot of things taken off, and I said, well, what do you think?
He said, well, a lot of writing, and he says, I never would have left a glove.
I know.
That made it too easy.
Really?
But who would have thought?
Well, see, if I had done the research, if I had thought of this idea, and had
given it any weight, whatever, and I thought to myself, I'd better go down and talk to the Los Angeles police about whether this would be possible, evidence handled badly.
I know I would have walked in there, they would have assured me that their technicians were impeccably prepared, that the gloves were changed 16 times, that every piece of evidence was long, because that's by the book.
I couldn't believe that.
In a case like this.
I couldn't, they must have known from the outset.
Except that I don't,
Do you think it's relevant to what they... No, no.
I mean, to me, absolutely.
It's rare and... I know, end of story from our perspective.
I call it the Tinkerbell theory, you know, that sort of the pixie fool around and did all this stuff in 20 minutes.
I was just wondering how this effect, it's relevant to this, possibly relevant to this piece, if this trial, this
affects what you... Well, if you had... Because you said, you know, murder is the ultimate evil.
It is, it is.
And if you put this in between the pages of the book, you can have sold two copies.
Especially the tapes.
Oh, spare us the unbelievability of that.
So, I mean, anybody... I know, swear you hadn't said something in ten years, knowing those tapes were sitting out there.
Well... Anyway.
What's your schedule, by the way?
I'm going to go over to Kate's mystery books about five.
Okay, so we'll get some time.
Yeah, we're fine.
I did an interview also with several of these with P.D.
James.
She's a doctor.
She's wonderful.
Of course, I was new to reading these books.
And I said, why does it always have to be there?
I mean, P.I.
P.I.s investigate thousands of them.
Right.
And her answer was, nobody's interested in each day of Granny's Pearls.
Well, I used to say that, because people would ask me, can you have a murder mystery with no murder?
Absolutely not.
Well, a mystery with no murder.
Yeah, but in a way, Lawless is not a murder mystery at all.
It's like a caper.
It's like a zany adventure.
And I think because of Kinsey Millhunt, I can get away with that.
But the stakes have to be high.
Absolutely.
Okay, let me just see now.
How are we doing?
Are we covering your stuff?
Yeah, I'm happy.
Russ McDonald was, it's a nudge.
Santa Teresa was kind of the tip of the hat.
Yeah, exactly.
I got to meet him a couple of times in the 70s, just in passing, and he was always such a quiet man.
Apparently, you know, he died of Alzheimer's, and apparently it took about three years before Margaret Millar figured out if there was anything wrong, because he was always quiet.
But...
Anyway, he was one of those writers.
It was kind of hard to meet him because Lou Archer was so kind of tough and out there, and Ken McGuire was so recessive and shy, and when his books would come out, he would leave town.
He didn't want to be part of any of the fanfare.
So once you met him, you would read Lou Archer, and you would go, what is the connection?
One of the advantages I have with these books is I am Kinsey Milhoun, and people are very clear in making the association between my personality and hers.
So like if people in my signing lines talk about the film rights, they always think I should play her.
I'm not an actress, I'm so old.
Kinsey Milhoun is always going to be younger and braver and thinner than I am.
I know Bob Parker's Spencer kind of grows with him.
It was interesting, which is one way to do it.
Of course, Philip Marlowe never aged, right?
Well, I think a little bit of aging makes a certain amount of sense.
When I started the series, I wasn't sure what I would do with the aging issue, and I just didn't want Kinsey Milholm to end up being ludicrous, you know, 70 years old with an ear horn and a little
pistol in her pocketbook, you know, swinging it.
This has to be measured.
That's right.
I've got to stretch this out.
I always say I'm going to be 108 myself by when we get to the end.
But do you feel the pressure?
I mean, because you have committed yourself to getting one of these guys out.
The pressure is sometimes almost crushing.
So a lot of what I do is
I've talked myself out of that.
And it's connected to the whole issue of reviews.
Again, it's like when you do a piece of work, it is just you and the work.
How it's going to be received, how many copies you're going to sell, whether the critics are going to love it or hate it is not your business.
So you have to stay very pure in your intention.
And the risk is enormous.
for the second book and the third and the fourth.
And it gets... Especially if now the first printing is $750,000.
Yeah.
In fact, I just heard they went back for another $50,000.
I mean...
Some of the things I read when you had 100,000.
I got 34,000 of my book and print.
Listen, that's fabulous.
That's fabulous.
I'm pretty excited.
I think I would be.
My first print was 6,500 copies.
I know, they are.
They're selling from 9 to 1100 books a week.
Yeah, except I don't get the money.
No, of course not.
When you start, do you pretty much have an idea?
No, they told you in Hollywood that you couldn't write until the rap on you was that.
Yeah, there's some critics who still claim I can't just plot.
Is that right?
But that's okay.
That's okay.
Who cares?
But do we start with plot?
Here's what I do.
I do a journal on my word processor.
in which I talk about, it's like a long letter to myself about what I'm doing.
And so I log in, and I generally talk about, sometimes I add a line about, is it raining?
Do I have a migraine?
Is my cat sick?
Because I think that affects your work, you know?
If your spouse is ill, it affects your work.
Then I talk about, that's just one line, I'm not in the business of keeping an endless diary of my growing life.
Then I talk about everything I know about a book, and I play suppose and what if, and I have a lot of big charts because I keep track of whether the killer is male, female.
I keep track of how Kinsey is hired, what she's hired to do and who hires her.
I keep track of what the motive for the crime is so that I don't just do endless repetitions of the same thing.
And I also keep a list of the climaxes of the book so I don't get into unconscious repetition.
I don't want the reader to go, oh boy, here comes the car chase.
Oh man, here's the obligatory, you know.
But it is a genre of books.
It is.
And you accept that.
Yeah, and... That doesn't bother you.
No, I love that.
I equate it to playing a hand of bridge.
You always got 13 cards, but the beauty of the game is
It can be anything.
And even if you have a bad hand, the ingenuity it takes to play it well will still teach you something.
I've read also that you really believe a great deal in intuition and intuitive process.
Yeah.
Where the work is concerned, and when I get really connected to a book, there is, I call it my shadow side anymore.
The object of the exercise, as far as I'm concerned, is to let Shadow write the book.
Because ego is the one that says, I hope this sentence is literary enough, I hope this is especially poetic, but not that, you know?
You need to come from someplace much more primitive.
An old ego's dreading imposter will just get you into big trouble.
And the stories are, although you do have these detailed journals, which I guess are four times the way.
And boring.
Oh, it's my whining on paper, yeah.
But do you ever find that the novels kind of go where it wants to go?
Yeah, yeah.
And that's wonderful.
Yeah, I don't feel that's... That's good.
The surprises are fabulous.
When I did J is for Judgment,
That was almost truly a completely shadow written book.
And what happened was, you know, when you write mysteries, one of the rules, you should pardon the expression, is you have to put the body as close to the front end of the book as possible.
I've never believed that.
I've seen more books badly written on that premise.
So I'm watching the body in this book, and it's drifting toward the back, and I'm starting to laugh because in J.S.
for Judgment, you don't know for sure there's been a murder until the epilogue.
Well, I got tickled by that.
I got scared, too, because ego's saying, you mustn't do that.
That's against the rules, and we're going to get criticized for that.
Oh, were you criticized for it?
No, they never catch you for the shit you think they're going to catch you for.
It's always something else entirely.
So everything you've said about it.
The last thing in there, I was discovering this with a nonfiction book, but I had some things in there that were read by my lawyers, and that we were waiting at a peak.
But I do get these little snipes, you know.
I can't believe some of the things that I picked up on.
I'm delighted that people are reading it.
It's the whole gotcha mentality, the letters that go, gotcha, you made a boo-boo on page 46.
I mean, I thought, you know, they're so good.
prudish about these things.
We've talked about the movies.
We've talked about your father.
You have also quoted once as saying that you think that people were perfectly happy childhoods.
Yeah, the quote, and to me it always has to go a certain way.
The quote is, what seems true to me is no one with a happy childhood ever amounts to much in this world.
And you think about it.
All the people who do things are driven from something.
dark.
The people who are raised in happy households are so bland.
They never, you know, they live in a state of equilibrium, so why do they need to do anything?
Those of us who came out of dysfunctional families, we're always groping and stumbling and compensating and overachieving.
But I respect the fact that you don't make a big deal out of this either.
No.
You don't whine about... No, no, no, because...
What was perfect about my childhood was it's perfect training for a writer.
And my parents were educated, intelligent, articulate people who adored books and reading, and they gave me many, wonderful things.
They just happened to drink, and that got everybody in a lot of trouble.
But even that was a gift to me.
And the truth is, the minute you discover what's true about your life, you know, we grow up, we don't want to get it, you know, we think every family is weird or whatever we experience we think is normal.
The minute you understand, you are being responsible for what goes down.
So the minute I got it that my parents were alcoholics and had problems, then it became my responsibility to make sure I was okay.
So I can't blame them for that.
What I really respect about these books, and my guess would be that you probably have just as many male readers as you have.
Yeah, the shift is happening.
Is it?
And I think one of the reasons is that it would be so easy, especially since you're a pioneer in this field, to allow your character to be a political kind of a character, to champion whatever causes are out there.
A lot of people thought,
I mean, you could certainly strengthen a constituency, but I don't think you're writing for a constituency.
No, and I hate politics.
I hate propaganda.
I think it falsifies.
I would never alter a story to make a political point.
I don't have political points of view.
I mean, by nature, I do.
I am a strong person, and as I said, I believe in hard work.
I believe you go as far as you can with whatever ability you're born with, but...
I was one of the reasons I never joined Sisters in Crime.
There was huge pressure on a lot of this in those days when that organization was formed because it was, if you're not for us, you must be against us.
You know, the whole queen bee, oh, you think you're too good to help us out.
And what I kept saying was writing is not about gender.
And I think it's a mistake to, if the guys, if male writers had decided to band together to form Brothers in Crime,
The hue and pride that would have gone up would be appalling.
And I kept thinking, why is it okay for us, but it's not okay for them?
Good.
Very good.
You said that you would never allow Hollywood to... No.
But do you have a visual image of her?
I mean, I mean, you described her physically.
Oh, I think it's probably close to my face.
And see, the voice, I think, is mine, which is why I listen to the audio tapes.
many people think of her as judy k because of that audio tapes but it's not that i know kinsey is not southern but i think she just sounds like me but she sounds like that voice in my head you know the one that tells you what's going on well i don't know i look for her sometimes around santa teresa do you consider yourself a storyteller in a manner
Are you telling stories as story?
How important is story?
Yeah, I do tell stories, but I don't think of myself as a storyteller.
That's a very odd thing, now that I think about it.
Could you explain just a bit?
Yeah.
Well, you certainly are telling a story.
I am, and I think storytelling is very important, and I think I'm learning how to do that.
But I don't think of myself as a storyteller by nature.
I don't know what I think of myself as.
That's a curious thing.
Nobody ever asked me that before.
Well, you can think about it for the next time.
If you have to be someplace in 10 minutes, we should probably wander back down there.
Well, just make sure you're covered.
A lot of good stuff.
You write nice stocky stuff.
I like that line, lie at the drop of the hat.
But of course, when we talk about lying, you think of Detective Furman's lies.
Unbelievable.
But he's on tape.
We never said he was smart.
Did you describe this for me?
Is it fun?
Do you have fun with this?
L was fun, but because I took the pressure off.
You know, I told, hold on, I'm going to do a book a year.
And now I wrote this book, I'm like, oh, I remember how it's supposed to feel.
It's supposed to be fun.
You know, I remember fun, P-H-U-N, fun.
And this is September 8th.
Sandwich, too.
All right, absolutely.
Oh, I got my Ellis for Lawless sweatshirt in the area.
Oh, you did?
My older daughter has appropriated it for me, though.
Of course.
They're beautiful, they're huge.
Oh, you know what you should do is give me, is your home address on here?
Yes, it is.
Okay, because I'll put you on my mailing list.
Oh, please.
Then you'll get, like, your Ellis for Lawless luggage tag.
Oh, I would love that.
Okay, I'll make a little note.
And you get a Kinsey-Mohan Christmas card.
Great.
And I'll certainly make sure you get cheer sheets.
Okay.
Ooh, that'd be good.
And a little bit publicist.
Oh.
All right.
So you were telling me what your next book's going to be?
Well, let's say, what's the next one?
I want to know.
I love it now.
Both are saying, I would love to see a proposal for the next book.
Is that wonderful?
Yeah.
That's great.
I'm going to tell our publicist to send you one.
Okay, ooh, perfect.
They can do that if you'd like to see it.
If you're interested, Dave Karpolis.
I would love that.
He really is.
He's very obsessed.
He's the largest.
a property owner of Santa Barbara County.
What he saw, he was a school teacher.
He taught mathematics in high school.
And what he saw was a need for a single family housing.
And he bought up, started buying houses for a baby.
They bought one, and they rented them.
And he's a mathematician, and he figured things out.
And to the point that
and it's basically low income.
I mean, if you know somebody at the Santa Barbara paper, you might just pull the clips on if you're interested.
Yeah.
I never use, I mean, he rents to large Hispanic families, eight million papers.
Well, it's been charged, you know, but my sense is that, you know, a guy that always, you know, these places are up to close,
Yeah.
We were always going to have complaints.
Oh, we ought to see it.
Have you ever seen this?
This collection has an image.
It's one of the images.
It's a lot of collection of images.
Do you know this?
No.
I know, I know about the manuscript.
What?
Thank you.
I have a few of my cars here.
Do you want me to go around and drive you?
No, no, it's on the way back.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay, you're all set.
Look at that oldie.
Oh, that's very good.
This is Carol.
I don't.
Carol, nice to meet you.
We'll get a good time.
Oh, good.
I've got the energy out of him, so now I'm awake again.
Stay in here.
Thank you.
The End
Oh, my God.
I'm gonna hold you in my arms, just you and I. Oh, yeah, in the middle of the night.
Oh, baby, in the middle of the night.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
Oh, oh, oh.
Oh, yeah.
I don't know.
Get on up, get on up, get on up
ladies and gentlemen we're pleased to bring you another hour packed with the greatest songs ever made on oldies
What have you been doing on the side of the wall?
Oh, oh, oh, I love you.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Oh.
.
Thank you.
Don't believe it.
I got the money, I got the money.
I got the money.
And I can meet them all together, but he's all I have to love them.
My star, I'm in the shape of a man.
Here we'll never talk to you, but I ain't got no body.
I got some money, but I've got to pay.
Why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why, why,
Another fella told me, we had a sister, we lived just fine.
Instead of being my deliverance, she had a stranger's number.
But I've got no one inside here.
Street's causing delays.
Congress Street now almost across the river.
As far as the major roadways go, let's check in now with Malcolm Alter with an update on downtown from the BZ Copter.
Malcolm?
All right, Alan, both lines of the artery remain jammed along with the entrance of the Callahan Tunnel.
The subway is eased out, so is the lower deck of Route 93, just slowing down mostly around Community College.
The Callahan is plugged up in the entrance right now.
Storer Drive is back into the Storer Tunnel.
Land Boulevard most of the way back to the Longfellow Bridge.
Cambridge Street is very badly jammed up, coming out of Charles Circle, heading up to Government Senate.
You want to
What does it all cost?
Southbury Street is closed off right now.
It looks like traffic still is flowing through Congress Street.
If they shut it down, they have reopened it again.
That doesn't mean they're not going to shut it down again.
So just be prepared to avoid that entire area if you possibly can.
Malcolm Alter, the BZ Copter.
Thank you, Malcolm.
Southbound Expressway, slow all the way down to Braintree, Route 3 southbound, jammed up all the way to Route 18 in Weymouth.
Stay to the left to get by a serious accident there, 128 southbound, heavy through Wellesley, all the way down through 95 in Canton, very little running room there, northbound Route 3 to 93.
And Route 3 itself all jammed up from 62 to 495, and the bike westbound stop and go flying from Alston Brighton right out to the TV Tower due to an earlier car fire.
Aaron Sawyer, WBZ, 24-hour traffic network.
This is BMW Dealers, where you'll find the exciting new BMW 318 Ti.
BMW performance, handling, and just plain fun at a surprisingly affordable price.
Test drive the new 318 Ti at your mass BMW dealer today.
Only 10 seconds till closing time.
Dominating this shopping truck.
He's got two AT&T digital answering machines.
Whoa, now he's going for the cartel.
Get the slam done deal.
Get a free official free basketball when you buy $50 of AT&T phone products.
Plus, enter for a chance to win a trip for four to the 1996 Olympic Games.
His wallet is out.
Get the phone products to help you stay on top of your game from AT&T.
That's your true choice.
For details, visit participating AT&T Authorized Retailer for AT&T Phone Center.
That's what will offer at AT&T 9995.
Or more supplies at AT&T 10995.
Great.
No purchase yet.
Every down or swoop stay.
Open to U.S.
Red Dead.
60-year-old.
Employment prohibited.
WBCTV's signed now is 5-0-5-6-8-4.
Now on that JFK evacuation in downtown Boston.
According to WBCTV4, the bomb squad is now obscene.
A suspicious package, maybe a briefcase, was found inside the JFK building and the threat of any
Challenge from that briefcase is being taken very serious.
The bomb squad is on the scene of the JFK building in downtown Boston.
It has been evacuated.
The Boston Fire Department and bomb squad are now at the scene.
Converse Street and a few other surrounding areas are closed off to traffic.
Investigators are now at the scene.
We'll update you as soon as we develop more information.
WBZ's Carl Stevens is on his way to the scene.
Bosnian government and Serb officials say they got what they want at talks in Geneva.
International negotiators announced an agreement on principles for peace talks.
The principles call for recognizing Bosnia's international borders, while giving the Serbs a separate and equal entity within the country.
Meanwhile, another mortar exploded in Sarajevo today, injuring 14 people, including some children, and NATO bombers are continuing to hit their Serbian targets.
Lawrence Cobb is a former assistant defense secretary.
He says these attacks should come as no surprise while peace talks continue.
You can expect fighting to erupt in there as soon as the great powers turn away because you
have not solved the basic problem of three separate groups really not wanting to share political power.
Corb is now the Brookings Institute's teacher in Washington.
A higher authority issues an order today for O.J.
Simpson.
In the judge case, a major development of the Simpson trial details now from ABC News.
Here's Larry Jacobs.
Another win for the prosecution of the O.J.
Simpson case.
Judge Edo wanted to tell the jurors that LAPD Detective Mark Furman was unavailable to testify.
Well, they went to an appeals court, which has just ruled that Judge Edo must change the jury instruction or explain himself to a higher court.
We're live with ABC News correspondent Greg Jarrett in Los Angeles.
Greg, some background here.
The judge never had to tell jurors that Furman had pleaded the fifth.
That's right.
The defense had wanted him either on the stand to plead the fifth in front of the jury or a jury instruction saying that he had pleaded the fifth.
Instead, the judge said he's simply unavailable.
Draw your own conclusions.
Well, the appeals court says the California law is specific that you cannot issue a jury instruction
concerning the Fifth Amendment from which a presumption would arise.
In other words, the jury can't think that because he claimed the Fifth that he did anything wrong in the past.
That's plain and simple law.
ABC News correspondent Greg Jarrett, live from L.A., Larry Jacobs, ABC News.
We have more information now on that situation in downtown Boston.